All right, so let's start now looking at exceptions
in code.
So, I've got a new project that I've created in
IntelliJ called "Exceptions" and what we need to do is
create a new class and call it "Throbble" Examples.
(clicking)
(typing)
So this code shows the basic constructs of a try-catch block
surrounding code we know could throw an error and hopefully
will in our case because it's not likely any of us have file
called "This underscore file underscore
does underscore not underscore exist dot out"
in the current working directory of our project.
You'll see that we're catching an object named "error"
of top Throwable which means we will catch every error
there is with this particular exception handler.
Once will I print the hierarchy of the throwable object
caught so we can identify if it's an error or an exception.
You can see that there's a code called "print errors
structure" method.
And that's that method there on the screen.
All right! So let's run this.
(clicking)
I'm looking at the output.
It shows that we actually caught a "File not found"
exception which is a subclass of I.O. exception
as you can see.
Right, so let's now add a method to our class.
We're going to add it down here.
(clicking)
You see, this one's got a mocking error there.
What we need to do is accept that import as well
for I.O. error.
As you can see I.O error comes from java dot IO.
And what we want to do is actually throw an error
which we'll do by invoking this method and we're going to
do that basically back up here in the try-catch block.
We're going to put this in the very first line above the
File Input Stream.
So I'm just going to do a "T-E" "dot" "throw an error."
If I rerun the code now,
(clicks)
you see the error caught down at the bottom is "java dot IO
Dot IO Error"
So this was a very generic example that didn't discriminate
between error or exception or between the two significant
categories of exception, "Checked" and "Not Checked."
So this table explains what types of errors are checked and
unchecked exceptions.
Firstly, the class type Throwable or any custom exception,
which extends Throwable, it's a checked exception
And yes, it must satisfy the catch or specify requirement.
Next, we've got Error or any custom exception which extends
error that's an unchecked exception.
And no, it doesn't need to satisfy the catch or specify
requirement.
Third. Exception. That's any exception subclassed directly
or indirectly from RuntimeException and these are called
runtime exceptions, unsurprisingly.
Unchecked exception in this scenario and "No" to the catch
or specify requirement.
And the fourth one, Exception.
Any exception not subclassed from RuntimeException or
its subclasses.
It's a checked exception and yes, it must satisfy the
catch or specify requirement.
And to confirm here, a checked exception is a special
designation, for a group of exceptions that the compiler
forces compliance of 'The Catch or Specify' requirement.
An unchecked exception will not be checked by the compiler.
Now before I explain 'The Catch or Specify' requirement,
let's look at some runtime exceptions.
There are many more and reviewing all of them prior to the
exam might be helpful, but in this table I'm going to list
most of the common ones that you're probably already
familiar with.
So arithmetic exception - An example there an integer
"divide by zero" throws and instance of this class.
Array Index Out of Bounds Exception thrown to indicate that
an array has been accessed with an illegal index.
Array Store Exception - an attempt made to store the wrong
type of object into an array of objects.
Class Cast Exception - attempting to cast an object to a
subclass of which it is not an instance.
Index out of Bounds Exception - thrown to indicate that an
index of some sort (such as to an array, to a string, or to
a vector) is out of range.
Negative Array Size Exception - thrown if an application
tries to create an array with negative size.
Null Pointer Exception - thrown when an application attempts
to use null in a case where an object is required.
And um Security Exception - thrown by the security manager
to indicate a security violation.
Because these are runtime exceptions, the compiler doesn't
force you to write code to check for the exception.
In other words, the try/catch block or specify the exception
in the throws section of the wrapping method declaration.
Only a check exception requires compliance, to 'The Catch or
Specify' requirement.
I repeat that a checked exception is neither an Error, nor a
runtime exception.
Stated in another way. Errors and runtime exceptions are
unchecked exceptions, everything else is a checked
exception.
The Catch or Specify Requirement states that code that might
throw certain exceptions, must be enclosed by either of the
following:
A try statement that catches the exception.
The try must provide an appropriate handler for the
exception.
Or a method that specifies that it can throw the exception.
The method must provide a throws clause that lists the
exception or an appropriate exception type.
So why does Java have these two different types of
exceptions, and if you're creating your own exceptions,
which should you use?
Java designers argue that an exception thrown by a method
is part of the method's public programming interface as much
as its parameters and return values.
If a client can be expected to recover from the exception,
you inform the client by making it a checked exception, and
identifying the exception in the throws clause of the
method.
If a client cannot be expected to recover from the
exception, you don't need to make it a checked exception.
All right, so I go back to our code.
So it seems I've said that errors are not checked
exceptions.
Let's modify our code in the Throwable Example class
we created earlier.
And specifically, what I'm going to do there, is add the
T-H dot throw an error.
(clicking)
We want to add that above the try/catch code
And by moving it there, as you can see, the code still
compiles.
There's no errors there.
Then it verifies that I.O. error, subclass from error,
isn't a checked exception.
(clicking)
Run the code again.
And you can see, we get an error.
An execution that simply aborts with the error message.
Obviously now because we're not in the try/catch block,
we can see the exception on screen.
But what about "File not found" exception?
Though we didn't include it, all the I.O. exceptions in our
list of runtime exceptions, and we confirmed the runtime
exception is not part of it's class hierarchy earlier.
Since it's neither an error or a runtime exception,
then it meets are definition of a checked exception.
So let's do the same thing here.
Let's try to move this code up.
(clicking)
I'm going to actually put it above the T-H dot thrown an
error line there.
Now by doing that, there's no code in the try block either,
but we'll ignore that for now.
If you hover over that and have a look, unhandled exception
java dot I.O. dot file not found exception.
Since we're not in a try/catch block, we're not satisfying
the catch or specify requirement in the compile, as you can
see, won't let us do that.
So I'll empty that first, or that last change, rather
and put it back into the try block.
And our code is then okay and we're able to run it.
We get the standard exception from the code alone 18.
All right, so that's the end of video here.
Moving forward, we're going to be looking at more examples
of checked and unchecked exceptions in try/catch blocks
and methods in the upcoming videos.
See you in the next video.